EMOTIV SPECS AND DETAILS 

 Description
——————————————

The EPOC uses a set of 14 sensors plus 2 references to tune into electric signals produced by the brain to detect the user’s thoughts, feelings and expressions in real time.The epoc+ can detect:
1. Facial Expressions
2. Performance Metrics 
3. Mental Commands


However although the EPOC uses considerably less sensors than the research EEG system a recent paper that compared the derived traces from adjacent frontal locations found out that they were identical to within the experimental uncertainty level for ERPs.

Moreover, It is by far superior to any other Consumer Brain-Sensing Products. Where the amount of information gathered by the Epoc covers most of the active brain compared to a 2-channel system or those sensors placed only on the forehead. It also has slightly reduced sensitivity for voltage and time.

 Data Analysis
———————————————
TestBench Manual: http://physics.hpa.edu/sandbox/users/dao_v/weblog/9320d/attachments/a8987/TestBench%20Manual.pdf?sessionID=e8fe165e146a93ac9ccb5ce1823692cad9b3be28

Matlab package: EEGLAB http://sccn.ucsd.edu/eeglab/

OpenViBE: http://openvibe.inria.fr

Emokit (Python): https://github.com/daeken/Emokit/blob/master/Announcement.md

Wiki Emotiv: http://wiki.emotiv.com/tiki-index.php?page=EmoState+And+EEG+Logger+Epoc+page

EDF format documentation: http://www.edfplus.info/

"EEG recording was conducted using Ag/AgCl electrodes mounted in a 62-channel Electro-cap (NeuroScan Inc., Eaton, OH). The ground electrode was located 10% anterior to FZ, with linked earlobes serving as references. EEG signals were recorded using a programmable DC coupled broadband SynAmps amplifier (NeuroScan, Inc., El Paso, TX). The EEG signals were amplified (gain 2500, accuracy 0.033/bit) with a recording range set to ± 55 mV in the DC to a 70-Hz frequency range. The EEG signals were digitized at 250 Hz using 16-bit analog-to-digital converters. Impedance was measured at all sites and was kept below 5 kΩ.

From the 62-channel array, EEG recording was filtered in the 2–30 Hz frequency range. The data were checked and corrected for artifacts and eye blinks were removed. The EEG recording was segmented into pieces that contained data from 30 s for encoding and 30 s for retrieval phases. The processed files were subjected to EEG power analysis (see Jaiswal et al., 2010 for details)." http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167876014016444?via%3Dihub


